("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
- I'm not his child.
He says so himself,
so he's not my father.
(crying)
- [Narrator] Ronja was
thrilled to see Lill-Klippen
at the bear's cave, but no
matter how much he pleaded,
she refused to go home with him.
Then, in the warm afternoon
whilst playing in the river,
wild harpies attacked.
Ronja and Birk made
a narrow escape,
but they had floated
too far down,
and were being dragged toward
the perilous, greedy falls.
- [Harpy] Where is the
lovely human with black hair?
Ah, now the blood will run.
(water loudly flowing)
(crying out)
(grunting)
(dramatic piano music)
- Ronja!
We've got to try!
(grunting)
(water loudly cascading)
(gasping for air)
(breathing heavily)
Ronja!
(water loudly cascading)
Finally, we made it.
Couldn't take any more,
just breathe, breathe.
Keep breathing.
(harpies screeching)
(breathing deeply)
(birds squawking)
(quiet gasp)
- Ah, you're back.
Have you both been swimming?
You're all wet,
and you look tired.
- Yes.
That's right.
We were having a swim.
Birk and I, down at the...
Hey!
Aren't you going to
say hello to my mother?
- Say hello to your mother?
I don't welcome
uninvited guests.
(quiet gasp)
That's what I learned
from my mother
when I was just a little boy.
Unwelcomed guests bring
nothing but trouble.
- It's a pity your mother
didn't decide to teach you
some manners as well.
Birk is very tired right now.
Come in.
(crying)
(sentimental piano music)
- You do know why I've
come, don't you, Ronja?
- It wasn't to bring
me more bread, no?
- No.
There'll be plenty of bread
for you when you come home.
(crying)
- I'll never come home, never!
Never never!
Never!
- Well, this can
only end one way,
with Mattis jumping
in the river.
- Mattis wouldn't do that,
throwing himself for my sake.
He wouldn't even
mention my name.
Lill-Klippen told me.
- He won't allow anyone to
mention your name anymore.
And yet, every night
he cries in his sleep
and calls your name.
Every night since you left.
- But how do you know?
Have you got him back sleeping
in your bed once again?
Is he not sleeping with
Noddle-Pete anymore?
- That's right.
Noddle-Pete couldn't stand
having him sleep in there.
He couldn't bear it anymore.
All day he looks
to fight everyone.
At night he battles
with himself.
But your poor father has to
have someone to hang on to
when things get bad.
Oh, you know Ronja,
it's hard to see someone
keep tormenting themself so
harshly when you love them.
- But Lovis, if
you were a child,
and had a father who denied
you, denied you so completely
that he couldn't
even say your name,
wouldn't you want to get away
from him as far as possible?
Wouldn't living in the
forest be so much better?
If it were your father,
would you go back to him,
if he hadn't asked you?
- No, I certainly
couldn't go back to him.
If he wanted me home
he would have to say,
"I'm begging you to come back."
Yes, and he would have to ask.
- Really?
Mattis would never say that.
You know what he's like!
(crying)
- Ronja, it's time for bed.
I'll wait here and try
and get some sleep,
until the dawn arrives.
- I want to sleep in your lap,
and you must sing the Wolf Song.
- Hmm, hmm.
♪ Wild wolf please
♪ Leave us be
♪ I know you're prowling
♪ Out from the forest
♪ To come steal from me
♪ I know your pain
♪ Cubs hungry again
♪ But you won't
take mine from me
♪ Wild wolf please
(birds chirping)
(sniffing)
- Mother.
What's wrong?
Birk?
- I'm feeling terrible for
how I behaved last night,
and for us today.
- Sorry, what'd you mean?
- I mean that you only
think of me as your brother
when we're alone,
when you're in trouble
or you need my help, and when
it's just us two together.
But when your father sends
one of his messengers,
as soon as his name's
even mentioned,
you stop being my sister.
And so I behave like
a little coward.
And that's why I'm
grieving for us.
- But Birk, that's not...
- But that's how...
That's how it has to be.
I realize that now.
- Even so, nothing's changed.
You still want to be my brother.
- Yes, of course I do.
You know I'm brother completely.
I always will be.
(drinking water)
So now know, I really
wanted us somewhere alone,
without anyone from Mattis'
fort getting in the way
of our lives here.
And that's why I cannot bear
to talk about what happens
when the winter comes.
- Why?
Tell me why.
- Because it's summer
now, sister mine.
And we only have this time
with each other, me and you.
We must make the most of it, eh?
Before winter comes,
you must go back
to Mattis' fort, Ronja.
- And you?
- I could go, and try to beg
my way back into Borka's Keep.
I wouldn't be
drive away, I know.
But what good would that do?
(peaceful orchestra music)
Then I'd be left without
you and we'd be kept apart.
I wouldn't be
allowed to see you.
- You'll freeze to death.
(laughing)
- Perhaps you're right.
Or maybe I'll
survive the winter.
- But if it's like last winter,
and the forest is covered
in snow and freezing, I
wouldn't be able to bring you
any bread or a warm fur
coat, and you'd be out here
by yourself, no one
to look out for you.
I am telling you, Birk Borkason.
- Well, I guess that's
how it will have to be.
But look, it's summer
now, so don't be sad.
- I don't care if
it's summer or winter,
who said I was going
back to Mattis?
I'm staying with you.
- No, you're going home.
Even if I end up having
to carry you there myself.
If the worst comes to the worst,
I plan to freeze
to death on my own.
But our summer is right now.
Let's enjoy it.
(peaceful harp music)
(water splashing)
Great!
I can't believe
how lucky we are.
- Yes.
I figured today would
be the day they came
and started puffing up.
- Come on Ronja, let's go.
I can't wait, I'm so hungry.
- Me too!
(peaceful guitar
and piano music)
(laughing)
(grunt)
An elk!
(harpy screeching)
(laughing)
(horses galloping)
(grunting)
- Let's make a promise.
We won't let anyone spoil
the time we have left.
- I love it!
I'm taking in the summer like
a bee gathering up nectar.
Gathering it all together
in a big lump of summer
to live on, to live on
when it's not
summertime anymore.
Brother, do you know the
ingredients that make
this great summer banquet?
It's a whole mixture of
things, like blueberry bushes
and trees covered with fruit,
and sunrises over the river,
and the freckles that
you have on your arms,
and the moonlight over the
mountains and the starry skies,
the noonday heat in the woods,
when the sun is shining
on the great fir trees,
and the light rain in the
evening, and squirrels
and foxes and hares and elk and
all the wild horses we know.
And we would swim and we would
ride into the woods and...
Oh well, you know, don't you?
- That would be the
greatest summer banquet.
Only my sister could create it.
(fire crackling)
- [Narrator] The air
grew crisp, cooler.
But they said nothing about it.
(peaceful harp music)
(quiet gasp)
- Ronja!
- What's wrong?
You're not afraid of the fog?
Do you think that after all
this time we'll get lost?
(girls singing)
(quiet gasp)
Do you hear?
It's them, it's the unearthly
ones with their siren song.
Oh, at last, I can
hear them for myself.
- But, don't you remember
hearing that song before?
- No, I've never heard it.
They sing their evil
songs to try and lure us
down to the underworld.
They do.
- Yes, they do.
Ronja, please don't tell me
you'd like to follow them.
(laughing)
- You're mad, why
would anyone do that?
Because Noddle-Pete, he said...
- Noddle-Pete what?
What did he say?
- It doesn't matter.
(girls singing)
- When the unearthly ones
come into the forest and sing,
you know it is autumn.
(laughing)
And then, soon, winter'll
come rushing over.
Oh dear me, yes.
- [Narrator] Next time on
Ronja, the Robber's Daughter.
"Life Isn't to be Thrown Away".
Don't miss it.
(peaceful orchestra music)